well it's the end of 2017 everybody and
it's time to count down the hottest hits
of the league alleges East sports year
I'm joined for the 7th edition of hot
line League by Mark Zimmerman my co-host
as well as perennial guests we've had
him on the show maybe more than anybody
else this year throughout the
long-standing episodes of the series
throughout 12 months of this year so he
plays the line between guest and host
and we brought him back for the special
holiday edition here at the end of the
year the final episode of the year
got a kelby money on Kel be glad to be
back yeah well let's start off with mark
mark how you been since last episode if
you guys want a idea into my mental
state I downloaded bluestacks and I have
been 24 hour straight grinding lineage
to revolution in the background even
right now it's running what is the most
dense it's a Android emulator ok so I've
just managed to like an actual oh it's
an Android emulator so you're running
the mobile gamle need to do revolution
yeah is that service
what no it I said shitty mobile game
Travis and I'm playing it non-stop
that's my mental state right now and
everyone on Facebook poke you mean and
all those other people they're all
they're all pumping it so I assume it's
not a shitty mobile game I mean any
amount of money will make you say that
piece of shit is not a piece of shit all
right well you can give me a piece of
poop in a million dollars and I will
tell you that it is not poop except for
my integrity mark except for any of our
potential future sponsors on the show
well of course those are gonna be the
greatest products in their respective
markets yeah
all right next up we got Ellie
tell me how you been I'm doing really
well I like Mark have been playing one
video game a lot but that that video
game is total war Warhammer - there's
I've just been playing so much of that
game you went - lets
which holiday party last night yes last
night yeah how was that uh it was kind
of interest well first off the spread at
the twitch holiday party was literally
insane maybe maybe the best eats I've
ever had at like you know like a company
event for anything that is crazy said
the CLG company but events oh yeah you
know we used to get some really nice
spicy chicken and rice bowls we would
that we would do in between scrims that
I would run out and grab at the Diamond
Bar house that was a thousand classic
staple but no it was the the spread was
pretty insane and also like the size of
the company is just like crazy the first
holiday party I went to two years ago
like I knew everybody there and walking
around at this one I was like I know
literally nobody in this company now
it's pretty crazy well I had a good time
this past weekend I went to the CLG
winter party thing there's a white
elephant there they got scream how was
that white elf it was terrible
Calvi all right why is Nick Allen's plus
one because his wife doesn't want to be
seen with him in public and I there was
a okay two hours before the CLG thing
I'm like Nikki want me to bring anything
you know like should I bring a bottle of
wine you know like a snack or something
he's like it's a white elephant break it
said two $50 gift I'm like okay well I
guess I got two hours to both get to the
CLG house and get a white elephant gift
so what's a Fry's Electronics and they
oh well alright the channel just got
fucking ban that was allowed now for
guys I thought I could just if I wanted
maybe we have this channel listed as IRL
but it's twitch chat spamming banned
right now so anyway so I go I get an RC
helicopter for 20 bucks cuz I can't find
anything good for 10 to 15 I go through
the white elephant and at the end of the
white elephant I end up with a book in
titled how to talk so your husband will
listen I look at the back of the book
price tag is six dollars so god fuck
there at least you avoided the protein
bars that somebody just grabbed out at
look at Nick Allen his gift was Larabars
just a box of those cuz he couldn't he
just grabbed them so next day I'm like
don't worry I'm doing a white elephant
invite a bunch of people invited Kelby
he never RSVP'd mark was there and our
price tag was 30 to keep it interesting
keep the fight going you know made
possible one of my twitch subs thank you
so much and I brought a Amazon Kindle
Fire because you can get those now for
30 bucks at the end of it I ended up
with a copy of NBA 2k 18 that sounds
great that mcallen had brought and had
probably gotten for free I
that's a terrible game I'm returning it
to Amazon so brought a $20 dream tent
and I left with nothing so you know what
you did better than me
how did you leave with nothing because
he brought 20 large V dreamed 10 he
deserve nothing next year make any sense
I talk to something a man gave my gift I
didn't want I've talked to Sloane who
helps co run the white elephant with me
naked marker invited to the Christmas
party next year but not the white
elephant portion they're banned from the
way office portion so wait I may as well
not even come how am i banned the point
is I brought a gift it was funny and it
made the night better and at the end of
the night no one had to take it home
what is the dreams in my home it's a
it's a it's for II got that if you want
to be in bed you can it's like a little
tent thing that wreck how it can be in a
mystery tent that's not been it was a
single best gift of the night people had
fun with it they laughed no one fucking
laughed for your kindle fire people just
got in fights over it people actually
wanted yes yeah sounds like your gift
was stupid Travis yeah everybody yeah
well whatever we've done enough
at the start of the show for those of
you that do not know what this episode
is there hasn't been much happening in
League of Legends eSports for the past
week is it is the end of the year this
is also the last episode of the year and
so mark and I were talking earlier we
decided to make the this show all about
kind of reflecting on 2017 and going
over you know some of the best moments
and some of the biggest stories and sort
of having a conversation about all that
kind of stuff and we'll talk a little
bit about that over the next 10 or so
minutes and kind of go over kalbi mine
and marks most interesting or big
stories for this year but then we wanted
hot dive dive straight into calls and
hear from you what were some of the
biggest moments for you things that'll
stand out for you things that you were
excited about something that cheered you
on it whatever whatever you were excited
about for 2017 you want to talk about
come on the show we'll hear from you
information in the twitch chat by the
way for those watching on the vaad we
get this question a lot we try to film
this on Mondays at 8:00 Pacific time and
there's also a podcast version of this
available down iTunes in Google a couple
other places as well if you look around
so if you want to listen to an audio
version of this you can do that there be
sure to subscribe and then if you can
give us a rating or a review because
that makes it so that people can
actually find the podcast cuz just some
random podcast nobody listens to with no
reviews unsurprisingly it's hard to find
on those different systems so I thanks
so much for doing all that and let's get
into it
so if people don't remember how this
works by the way I posted the discord
link in chat please join the discord
join the general voice chat and then
post your questions in the general text
chat and remember try and keep these
things exciting what did you like Travis
said love about this year or what you
hate what was your favorite memory
what scarred you for life who do you who
is your most hated player of the year
who is your most hated personality I
think anything games big moments
anything like that will probably do in
the beginning of 2018 I show that kind
is looking forward to the to what's
coming in 2018 but any of the stuff that
kind of went down this year mark do you
want to start us off I know I've been
talking for a little yeah I want to
start off with an award about like
person that I was
least excited to see return to the
League of Legends kind of content scene
and it was Kelby yes he's back yeah that
you can call it a return to the content
scene I don't feel like I was ever our
content pretty cool I mean you you were
you were in it used to race blocks for
highway power no I like I feel like whoa
all right first off wait I okay I did
write like one blog I forgot I thought
you were talking about something else
Travis nevermind
idiot what does he think I was talking
about coke no we're good we're good
uh was good you know what I think my
greatest misty m-- was not doing a
series like nois notes like he's just a
fucking genius dude I should have done
Noah snows eloise Kampf kelpies comments
calm Kampf like mine Kampf you know
we're not gonna do the comp thing I
think we'd skip on the comp that okay
Travis you know which comp means
struggle okay
Kelby struggle yeah that's the story
that's like yeah avoided relegation yet
again alright yeah avoided bankruptcy
again the point is all right mark did
you have a real one or did you watch my
favorite moment in I think I would have
to go with the world's group stage just
like how fucking crazy it was and not
just like oh my god TSM bombed out but
like fnatic making that rally Cena I'm
barely clutching it out that was crazy
they're like huge comeback by SKT I know
this is kind of broad focus you're
freaking a month long event is here I
said the group stages weeks okay yeah
I'll be two weeks Travis yeah yeah be
hey if you want me to be more specific
the greatest moment was the pigeon the
pigeon
yeah from spring finals the pigeon yeah
wait what was the pigeon yeah Kelpie
wasn't paying attention illegal edges at
that time so in and we should kind of
talk a little bit about these instead of
just sort of
pointing them but SoCal preferred you
didn't know at spring finals in
Vancouver
there is a pigeon that got stuck in the
arena and so it was just flying in
circles over everyone's head in front of
the screen because you know it's like
theater-in-the-round
yeah and so the end on stage it would
land on stage there were security guards
sneaking up in front of the whole
audience trying to get the pigeon in
like a bag or something and so no wood
at this point time and the audience is
watching it and of course the casters
are sitting there casting and they're
like well he's just yessing but
apparently the crowd is really excited
about suggesting they don't want to
comment about the pigeon yeah they
didn't want to comment about the bill
because they didn't know the casters are
just oh okay and the dream yeah and so
eventually they start shooting it to
like they would show the pigeon yeah the
pigeon pick/ban and it was just it was
nice because instead of you know I think
right realized they couldn't they
couldn't stop the pigeon from existing
so they just had to kind of embrace as
part of the broadcast even though you
know the crowd was the same thing
happened in spring finals the year
before in Vegas when people brought a
beach ball and they were doing the beach
ball
oh yeah I love stuff like that to be
honest yeah I like it too it gets the
crowd hype and you know symptoms if you
have a shitty game or whatever it's it's
fine so pigeon was a good one you know
you could also talk about if you're
talking about finals events mark
Zimmerman seeing silver scrapes live on
stage yeah I mean I don't know who that
was a highlight for it wasn't me I don't
think it was anyone listening I think it
was a highlight for eSports just the
industry when we were able to secure
that kind of live performance was pretty
good yeah I guess when you have to deal
with the Krissy Costanza's of the world
it's nice to get a real yeah artiste up
there sometimes yeah exactly
Kelby do you have a highlight for this
year uh yeah so as you kind of touched
on earlier you know that since
I have kind of moved on from running
League of Legends teams I don't watch
League of Legends as much as I do
anymore I think I would definitely fall
into more the casual fan category just
watching you know like important matches
and finals and stuff like that although
I didn't know the pigeon story but I
will say actually that worlds this year
really drew me in and I watched a lot of
worlds in particular like I stayed up
and watched the entire misfits and SKT
series and I thought that that series
was so good maybe the best and like I
said I haven't watched as much League of
Legends as I used to but I think in part
honestly I feel like League is in my
personal opinion not as exciting to
watch from a from a meta standpoint as
it was in some of the earlier seasons
but the misfits SKT series was like such
a great series to watch and I felt like
for actually almost the majority of that
series misfits was like playing like the
better team and I was like holy shit are
we gonna see a European team you know
like three one or three two SKT it was
at like faker and it was just so insane
it was such a great series I think I
stayed up to like that had to have been
five my time on oh what's it at work
night I think yeah yeah I said like five
my time watching that series because it
was so good it was yeah are they gonna
do it like that I think that was so much
of what the quarterfinals were was just
like are they gonna do it like c9 had a
pretty good run there's just a lot of
good moments yeah yep and quarterfinals
but mark still picks group stage instead
yeah nothing like they didn't actually
do it you know and maybe maybe it's it's
unfair but I feel like a large
importance of it is like what actually
happened because no one's gonna remember
in two years like remember when misfits
was close they're probably not gonna
remember that that much yeah but I feel
like remembering fnatic being like
nearly mathematically eliminated and
then like coming back and making it was
like crazy to me yeah that was pretty
yeah oh yeah Suzy are there the the Uzi
and SKT series was
- yeah yeah there's a lot of good I
think the quarterfinals this year we're
definitely the best quarterfinals ever
you know because usually that's just
like some second seat gets smashed by a
Korean team but the Korean didn't smash
them in an age of fibrous China so yeah
I so I'll do another one which was I
would say the entire franchising
situation because a lot of people don't
write remember there were rumors about
franchising coming but at the start of
this year we had no idea we were just
coming out of LCS forever which was like
all the teams revolting and doing like
this big open letter except for echo Fox
I guess and we like what there was no
idea and then you know I think in spring
they announced it I did an interview
with riot and Reginald and Noah Winston
and who would have thought then that
immortals wouldn't get yeah I think this
has been the most interesting offseason
not just because the rosters are we've
seen such a crazy I mean what was it
like 82 or 92 percent of the LCS I think
turned over or maybe it was like 80 85
something around that there like
something stupidly high and and while
that is fascinating and a pretty direct
result of the franchising it's been fun
for me to cover all the like
interviewing people from Golden State
Warriors and from you know the Cavs and
seeing like nadeshot enters LCS like I
know we don't want to talk too much
about what 2018 is gonna hold because
that's gonna be like the next episode
but just like the sheer amount of crazy
stuff that happened in a relatively
short timeframe this year and sort of
setting us up for next year is is pretty
crazy and franchising I think that
franchising this year might become like
one of the biggest eSports stories of
the decade you know as we're evaluating
it in a couple years for sure I thought
it was also really cool for us that it
ran parallel to overwatch franchising so
you can like
you Nurik yeah directly compare a little
bit yep exactly uh what was your biggest
surprise for this year that's a bit
messy what is it fly quest getting into
LCS dude the magic I want to be it like
I said this before on one of our
episodes but I would give anything so
bad to be like in the room during the
fly quest pitch and like just hear the
god that was like hey man I'm gonna
convince you that we actually deserve to
stay in this league instead of like
immortals or somebody else and they
bought it like that guy is way better at
sales than I am so it's a bigger
surprise to you that fly quest made it
in that immortals went out like if you
had a better team yeah immortals going
out or flightless again which one would
you have bet more money yeah I would put
more money on a yordle say again I would
have bet more money on fly quest going
out probably really yeah just because
like so you don't know with due
diligence we don't have the same sort of
business visibility that riot will get
when they go through a franchising
process and looking behind the curtain
of all these teams and there could have
been something with any one of these
teams where I was just like holy shit
these guys have been fighting hiding
this huge red flag for forever and I'm
not saying that was the case with
immortals but you know like it could
happen and fly quests I'm just like I've
you them in the same light as Dignitas
where like you already got your backing
you already had like you know the group
that was gonna level things up and you
haven't done anything with that group
yet so how are you gonna convince me
that things are gonna be different or
better now yeah that's just me but I was
hyped that they made it back in favorite
team fly quest fly quest for life for
sure cyclists like Whistler do they have
merchandise that I can purchase anybody
knows is marketing pro bars that you
copy
sorry what'd you say this Maxim is mark
going robot for you uh he would did for
a sake okay
Oh Travis is going robot for me Kelby is
the only one who is
105 yeah which I thought he always goes
robot on discord when we're not
streaming so yeah no that's true I think
we're fine now I would say biggest
surprise for me was faker getting to the
finals and losing yeah because I can see
like a world where like there's better
Korean teams that they have a tough time
in lck or whatever like kinda happened
in season four when they didn't make it
but - hat like and obviously if you
watch all of world's having SKT losing
the finals was actually the Excite not
too surprised it looked really weak but
just just that sentence itself like
faker reached the finals of worlds and
got three odd and his shit pushed in is
like whoa yeah crazy actually yeah I
always said I could never bet against a
SKT until they actually lost a serious
at Worlds it's just too hard to do it
yeah yeah I wouldn't I think I said
Sam's like everyone knows Samsung should
win but like no one was like no one
thought that it would actually happen
the way they write one of one of my
favorite stories in 2017 might be the
Ballad of Doc so doc you know you start
the year with Noah announcing that he
has signed our talk - I think it was a
three year contract yes and saying and I
do an interview if I forgot that and it
was like yeah like we are super
committed to doc you know like we've
talked to him you know like the Team
Liquid infrastructure was just not a
good place for him to accede and like we
know or six you succeed and we know that
we have what it takes to really like
help him sort of figure out how to deal
with a lot of the challenges he faces
and like everything's gonna be great and
they're like would split later it's like
dar doc is off you know and then dar doc
goes to CLG and everybody's like well
there's one team who can fix darn oh
yeah yeah
Oh it'll be great you know he's gonna go
to seal G the seal G we'll have one
success actually that's not what
happened everybody was super like CLG
why did you pick up yeah
Dhar doc a lot of reddit was actually
like man this team like if anyone's
gonna do it's gonna be like afro and the
team of friendship and like Tony's a
great coach he'll definitely respect him
yada yada yada and then there was this
firm out of that chat I didn't make it
through the split and then somehow ends
up back on Team Liquid again yeah so you
go from you go for a like mortals this
is all and this has all happened in like
just over six months I think right like
maybe seven or eight months and the
course of seven or eight months he has a
three year deal with mortals where
they're like committing super hard to
growing him as a player to CLG where he
lasts less than a split back to Team
Liquid where he went before immortals
like what a hilarious story you know I
gotta say one thing for Josh though he
must interview super well you know yeah
I'm going into that so you so you've
been fired from your last four positions
for the exact same thing how are things
gonna be different this time around let
me tell you guys so so one thing I'll
say and this is like you know we've been
joking a lot on the show he is someone
who is very very smart and like in like
how he talks about things and like when
he's not being super emotional over like
a game or something like that if he's
not in that state he's very convincing
when he's like no no I know what I did
was wrong in this kind of stuff and it's
funny because I know a lot of people who
interviewed him and like kind of had his
back and like bought into his side of
the story a lot more than they did maybe
some of the other people's and it's like
I wouldn't say he's like lying I just
think that he sounds very very
convincing when he talks about his
previous mistakes yeah and that is how
he he probably ended up on immortals and
clg's because when you talk with him
he's sound like he's very like
intelligent you can see like you
understands him but and then the
emotions come back in and it's all out
the window
Joker can't spell is in and chat asking
about 20 18 28 teams of next show Joker
can't spell talking about 2017 right now
yeah I think it's super interesting then
you can kind of
I gotta that like CLG losing explored
our dock or our trading Exmouth e Ford
our dock and exceeding going to worlds
right I will still defend the trade a
little bit from clg's perspective just
because they came off a really bad split
and in spring smithy was one of the
worst junglers in the league so like was
dar dog necessarily the right move
I don't know but that team did need to
change and smithy was the clear one to
change on the team
well we've shared a couple of our ideas
and I'm sure we have some more that we
can litter in throughout the
conversation but we definitely want to
hear from you so if you want to sort of
give the spiel mark oh I need to put on
streamer mode so that I can he just left
but we have if you want to come on the
show put a question in chat if you are a
or not a question maybe maybe statement
whatever you want to talk about and
whence and mark will be looking at it
where there's also a subs chat so if
your sub might be a little bit easier
for you to get picked up there if you
put your message in there because mark
checks both and now we actually have our
first guest on the show decks factor 7 7
7 where econ from I'm called from Kansas
and congratulations on getting the name
right you're one of the first few thank
you yes do you go on a lot of callin
shows with this name no but streams from
donations and that I'm just kind of
broke right now so yeah rollercoaster
there oh no I want to I want ramus
Travis got excited that you might donate
and then you're like I'm kind of broke
right now and he's like alright and then
the Hangout emo just got spammed and
nice to have you on the show you don't
ever need a support I'm just happy
people are watching the content what
little hang-up emotes Joseph Dex actor
what do you want to talk about well my
favorite part of 2017 was the the end of
the season stuff the whole
trades the whole movement of all the
teams because after a really
disappointing 2017 year for North
America as a whole MSI worlds and all
that
I think this sets up at least for a
really really interesting 2018 I know
we're not talking about it but I think
it just really sets up sets up the next
year really really well yeah so it's
it's kind of like bringing hype for you
to look forward to the next year all the
stuff that's kind of going on right now
yeah for at least just in ALCS in ALCS I
think it's gonna be really good worlds
and MSI again oh I see what you're
saying for the regular season this is
good yeah it is it's gonna be really
really hype yeah I think do you have a
favorite move in particular that
happened um I can't really say there's
like this a lot of like big moves for
each team that I think have been really
interesting but in like maybe the most
interesting one probably is Ben and
Missy going over to TSM because I
thought they would be like completely
loyal to EU and I really do think it's a
big pickup for TSM now how they work
that as a team I think they're probably
going to be top four at least probably
top one or two but like I just like I
see like the top four or five teams is
really close and the bottom five teams
also being close I don't think there's
gonna be a dog two or three teams like
we've had in the past year's Team Liquid
it's not going to be 8th 9th 10th
they're probably going to be 4th and but
but the like I can't looking at all the
rosters I just don't see any one that
that would be just like oh well they
suck they're gonna be 10th woohoo this
is gonna be so fun oh yay TSM cloud 9
CLG they're facing the 10th place teams
that's a free win I mean because like
golden Guardians is questionable optic
kinda questionable clutch is kind of
questionable but I still see the
there are there could be very very big
positives it just if they mesh and they
gel well together they could do really
good I really do yeah yeah I I think it
is a pretty exciting time for sure
my favorite part of this ven and Matthew
thing that you got out of the interview
Travis was that they'd been planning to
come to na for a while it was like they
bench they knew they were coming here
that was great that was a great deal
they just need to know one was like you
know it's like time in the stock market
you know there's good come over at the
right time
yeah franchise is a great time did you
see that the picture that been tweeted
today no Travis oh come on oh yes I did
the yeah that was pretty good
oh you want to show it on streem okay
well I don't know if let me see if I can
we all just reference it and laugh about
it and twist out the fucking clue we're
talking about yeah here it takes a
second yeah yeah de-facto would you say
that there was a move that you weren't
happy with because for me I think easily
were smooth that we saw start the 2018
you know season technically has to be
losing contracts for c9 now I want that
one's still a head-scratcher to me um
for me it's a c9 move for me it's
licorice I can I love c9 c9s my team and
licorice is good and I think he can be
he can definitely be a starter and that
but it's like the Spence Karen I think
is kind of an even trade for contracts
but I mean there could be negatives to
it i but it's just it could be the the
environment on TSM just didn't work that
well I don't know but it's like you you
lose impact and you pick up licorice I
mean like if they like who knee will
came back who needs now on echo fox did
you go for him flame was available did
you go for him someday was available
even lore low I he's just more proven
then then then licorice is because like
Lauro sometimes literally went off
on Team Liquid with all their struggles
and he had some really really good plays
and some really really good games now he
had some really bad ones too but every
player does but it feels like there are
so many top laners available and that
just felt like okay we got this and oh
hey oh oh no they signed oh and it's
just like then they were just like well
we're keeping licorice and it's like you
could there probably was some one that
would been a little bit better yeah I
think speaking of how this is a year in
review show the Year Laura Lowe came to
pass huh oh yeah
not that not to that level hey Dex
Factor thank you so much for coming on
the show it was great to hear your
thoughts on your favorite time of the
year yeah thanks for having me
appreciate it have a good one
did that that's vent wheat is yeah for
those listening to the audio version
there's a picture on Twitter that's been
posted of him with Santa he says me I
want to drag him
Santa replaced be realistic son he says
okay I want to get our groups with TSM
Santa says what color dragon did you
want again it's pretty good pretty good
so wait next up we got dr. Manhattan
returning to the show he's made of them
I wasn't hopefully we can you know yeah
I think he's just waiting for you to
finish your recap dr. Manhattan where
are you calling from
I am calling from the nation's capital
in Washington DC yeah you've called
previously correct I have a new may or
may not be a sub I feel like you're some
I am a sub thank you so much for the
support
I appreciate supporting the show man
yeah I I can't believe you can't keep
track of the 15 different subs yeah yeah
well dr. Manhattan what was your
favorite moment of the year the big
story whatever got you excited in 2017
well before I get into that I want to
give a quick shout-out to one of the
biggest things that happen and that's
actually this show starting right now
this show has been such an exciting
thing to watch I remember when you guys
ya know just like seriously like there's
really nothing like this as well really
in the leave scene and the fact that we
all get to just enjoyed this whether
it's awkward
nerds are just that one TSM warrior it's
fantastic thanks dude I'm glad that I'm
glad you like it I think mark and I have
both been you know this was kind of a
random idea we tried and I think both he
and I have been really pleasantly
surprised by how well the community has
enjoyed it in and how well it's been
received from people despite everyone's
spamming the hang up I'm up when you're
you're sucking up to us dr. Mann what
did you want to talk about though
probably in my opinion like my favorite
moment of 2017 would be probably g2 at
MSI this year which I think people
overlook a lot and in general I think
the more nation's capital in your
favorite moment was whenever a European
team did what an international event I
mean oh my god this guy's a plant yeah I
mean okay well I'm happy to hear why cuz
I you know I mean the year before we saw
we saw the CLG do well at Emma size so I
feel I feel like it wasn't that newest
story to see a a Western team do well
there yeah
and it was actually really cool but like
I think the one moment that I think that
a lot of people even like on reddit I
kind of got hyped about it I think like
during when they played TSM that really
one call that expect made to really like
I think they were all trying to back
yeah we can do this I cannot believe me
and then like alright cool and then
really just like how pivotal that moment
was knowing how g2 was on the verge of
elimination along with world elite and
TSM and now that really was kind of the
just pivot moment that really swung them
into the positive momentum they ended up
3-1 and world elite and even taking game
off of SKT and I thought that perks gave
probably one of his best performances
we'd seen throughout the entire year in
like in 2017 so I think that that was a
really awesome moment this year in
competitive league yeah very very cool I
mean were you was it just sort of the
the whole team like the performance of
the team across the whole event that
really stood out to you or was it that
specific moment uh at first it was kind
of shaky but really that specific moment
I just I just it's like that it's like
that anime like
you know like thing you see and like
those summer blockbusters like the oh my
god doesn't know it no idea what you're
talking about
well it's like that's it's like that
moment you see in like most like
blockbuster where it's just like oh and
like it just pivots the entire like when
that oh guys what's a spoil Star Wars a
little bit so tempting dude get you
banned well anyway yeah dr. Manhattan
thank you for sure than that with us I
think it's nice of you to bring up
something from amasai because MSI I
think kind of flew under the radar this
year or otherwise kind of I feel like it
was a little less memorable of an event
compared to previous some of the other
years that are some of the other events
so I think it's nice to have celebrate
something from that event specifically
yeah absolutely I think you've had me on
the show yeah thanks for calling in in
about doing a quick shout out by the way
I since the show started there's been a
bunch of people that have supported us a
gloater subbed shadose94 t1 coach Keith
Schwindt
spam Prince Wilhelm says please don't
start if Travis have my bits big Matt
t17 a hi Travis here is five dollar
bills and more to come we got Mountain
izl on the show where he calling for a
man is all
hey Travis I'm calling from Anaheim
California okay
I was so close close to home yep yeah
what was your a big moment for you in
2017 well I'm gonna start this off with
a little meme I was watching based
unistream and Mark stepped in for him
while he made a sandwich and challenged
the chat to one-on-ones and he it was a
random so he got Jenna and I Got Talent
and I beat him and then everyone like
started shitting on him but yeah that
was your favorite moment at 2017
whatever you Oh mark well I mean that
was the funnest thing I think for me
personally but like in terms of LCS
if you want to make the new eSports
highlight of the year I'm fine with that
yeah go back and dig up the vasa Travis
can plant it in this video is your LCS
steak I would have to say core JJ
finally getting a ring oh yeah yeah he's
deserved one ever since his dominant
performance in North America so yeah I
think I think it makes a lot of sense
where have you been following his career
for a long time um when he was on
dignitas yeah but aside from that not
really
so I mean I was just happy that he left
Digg and got onto a good team and then
you know finally got a ring yeah so kind
of down down that line of logic like why
is it in particular like you know he
played what us two two splits in North
America and that's it and he was like in
Korea before that and in Korea after
that you know why is it that just like
that little bit of time gave you the
connection with this random Korean guy I
feel like he was underrated if I'm being
honest like people look people didn't
really look at him like when people
would mention names it always be like
the rekkles
the reckless like just high tier 8080
carries and he wasn't really mentioned
so for him to have to go and go back to
his region switch positions and then you
know make it stood out to me yeah yeah
what's cool man well thanks so much for
calling on the show I can't I definitely
agree with you it's a pretty cool thing
to see and as much as it hurts to have
faker you know crying after the final
match like it's kind of cool to see that
cinderella story so yeah I mean I feel
bad about seeing him cry too but I don't
know I'm just happy that Samsung one
because I'm pretty sure a majority of
people didn't want SKT skins again so no
offense that's Katy but yeah I don't
know man I would love to see what they
do the fourth time around yeah they
should just start picking the same
champions so that there's there's no way
for them to you know reiterate anyway
thanks so much for how they call real
quick though do you mind if I put
clip somewhere sure yeah just throw it
into chatter discord I probably won't be
able to edit it in but I'm sure for
anyone who wants to see that would take
any level of effort on Travis's point
yeah I put it in right there thank you
I'm going to tag anyone or you can do
whatever you want I want interacting
with that twitch clip my whistle that's
for you and Edie what do you want to
share with ya I have Travis at gunpoint
a message your Mont sky Bosley Travis
you're not gonna fuckin open that on
stream you got that have a good one all
right have a good one guys see it
Thanks as we really speaks to the
strength of the n/a region that we can
have somebody like cord JJ come over
here and then go back to Korean World
Championship as we're going back through
the as we're waiting for the next caller
tasbeeh has subbed amok sick has subbed
gorilla nine five six and deuce the king
and that you're joined by us up and now
we're joined by sup Conn on the show how
you doin Conn doing pretty good how you
doin Travis and written crowd thanks
yeah are you con Quan this kanji Oh 78
okay not the new TSM translator I know
I'm who had been the TL support and
other stuff where are you calling from
Kahn I am calling from Idaho I called a
couple yes and we made potato memes oh
definitely yes
I just like say like how like awesome
Kelby is for wearing a Christmas sweater
to the show and everything and how like
right are you trying to say about mark
thank you
I try them in there put an effort in
over if I had a Christmas sweater I
would I go buy one yeah I think I I
think you're actually insulting me and
Mark more than you're complimenting
Kelby I'm not insulting you guys I'm
just recognizing you know the somebody
for putting some effort if I have
Christmas some extra effort unlike me
and Mark some ipj pants can I put them
through my arms yeah are all people from
either know this presumptuous I'm
originally from the East Coast that's
right oh yeah sorry you ended up in
Idaho halfway you were on your way over
to the good side when you almost all the
way there it's a little short takes you
where you have to work so
every one minute and I'm about to prove
that what side of the Mississippi is
Idaho on it is definitely on the west
side wait was that a serious question
yeah all right as far as as far as I'm
concerned there's there's ten states and
you know it's all right Kahn what did
you want to talk about 76 big moment for
you its 2017 while I enjoyed worlds and
I really liked it
my overall take for 2017 is that like
having worlds every year is actually bad
for like an na and EU as a region
interesting I think the most fascinating
thing about this is that you've managed
to work an opinion that is probably not
relevant to the show's topic into the
show anyway by saying this I guess we
were having a ball with all the other
questions card comes into the show he
criticizes my apparel and then starts a
whole discussion or a topic I praised
Cal B's so you think that we do worlds
were like every other year or something
or I would actually yeah I'd say every
other year might be better and maybe you
couldn't you know you can still have
like an international type big
tournament every year maybe you can do a
World Cup like you know kind of like
talk about all stars like you can do a
serious maybe two month-long actual
World Cup with like countries being
represented for teams and stuff I think
the reason why world's three-point ad
for those regions particularly obviously
they don't succeed in it like kind of
like everybody has kind of said there's
no expectations to do well but that's
not like what these teams are promoting
and a lot of their content like if you
watch TSM legends if you listen to every
like everything every time you they talk
about it they're always talking about
how they want to go far and will succeed
yeah they have hope consistently like
the first caller tonight saying it was a
disappointing year because MSI socked
and world sucked for us so my most my
favorite part of the year's roster
changes what is that saying about the
whole year as a whole in terms of your
region like LCS action I mean how do you
this sounds to me like you want to stick
your head in the sand and just like oh
we don't suck I don't don't prove that
to me
once a year twice a year maybe with MSI
I'm not saying I don't disagree we don't
suck what I think I'm saying is you just
had a you know a whole bunch of people
just invest a lot of money into a you
know an na LCS and viewership did take
the hit enough to where I it had the
switch it's the best of ones hoping that
pulses are back up
you have a lot of money being invested
is you consistently having your region
look bad going to help sustain your
region as a whole
go ahead I was gonna say do you think
that viewership in na LCS has been
dictated by regional performance at
Worlds I said that slightly it has do
you think that was a bigger portion of
the potential dip or was it the best of
three dual stream not using the existing
twitch channels I think well I think
that hurt a lot I think riots whole
scheduling thing is a bunch of they're
not smart about how they schedule their
leaks I mean they promote the na and EU
LCS is like one big thing and they
expect people to watch like 60 games and
four days yeah no reasonable regional
person's gonna watch that even if he
lovely well I don't think that they
expect people to watch that many games I
think it's just that's sort of you know
not every but you don't watch everything
that happens at the Olympics oh I agree
I just think you'll have a hard time
making this argument within having
people buy into it because especially
because you're we're coming from kind of
in a centric perspective but do you
think China wants to have Worlds every
two years right like they keep showing
pretty good results there if not first
like there's a chance for them that's a
time they could what's alike mean I'll
ask you guys what was the last time a
Korean team lost to a non Korean team
and a best-of-five rebels at world it
was 2014 and it was Oh oMG beating najin
yep only time that ever happened before
that was and season 2 finals when
Zuba frost loss to Taipei assassins
other than that everyone said no lck
team has lost to anonymously k team in
the best of luck so yeah I know that
that stuff pretty well thank you the
question is yeah
I'm just being a dick for fun but the
question is why would you possibly want
to get rid of the most hype event of the
year solely because your region doesn't
do well despite the fact that it is one
of the key factors in investment when
you're saying that you're concerned
about dipping viewership numbers in
North America how about the stats page
that they come up with every year where
Worlds was played for 40 million people
and 200 billion fewer hours and yada
yada yada like that if your concern is
viewership this is one of the best tools
for viewership and you want to put it
every two years it might be that okay
think of it I guess here's my argument
as well especially for na and EU what
good like if you're a fan of the region
what goodness world's gonna be for those
stats if you're not able to sustain your
own region as a whole with the
viewership you get for your regional
play i I think there's just I think your
premise is that local viewership will
decline as teams continue to perform or
has declined so far well yes but I think
you are it's correlation is not
causation right like you you believe
like we don't know what has happened
with the player base in North America we
don't know we do what effect you just
look up the number of ranked players
that's gone down well North America is
the only region that has the average
ranked player base going down yeah but
the riot doesn't publish those numbers
no but they're public well yourself
using third-party right yeah those are
accurate and we don't know we don't know
if that necessarily means the player
base is Gunter but it is Markus right
there I go to it to a public posts that
are all over the internet that you can
google in two seconds how dare I say no
I'm just saying the ranked players going
down isn't necessarily mean player base
is going down but it is probably a fair
assessment or as people that there's
North America player basis but the
competitive North American player base
is factually shrinking certain that has
nothing to do with the eSports
component oh definitely the eSports in
the actual game itself are totally
separate
well kind of I'm just saying that like
average playerbase matters for eSports
but it you sports doesn't necessarily
matter for the average player yeah I I
think that my only point is I don't know
that there's any evidence that any
direct evidence that North America's
poor performance at international events
has led to a decrease in viewership I
think if you did some polling fans my
premise my guess beforehand would be
that it was more the best-of-three
change and also just a overall lack of
interest in League of Legends because
there may be planning it less that has
led to drop of viewership not Worlds so
I don't I do not think I look I think
there are reasonable arguments to be
made about you know how frequently we do
international events that North America
COMPETES that if North America is never
gonna win because there's like a morale
hit that can take place there but I
don't think that you do it because you
don't make that argument based off of
concerns about na LCS viewership I agree
it's just it says a lot as a whole when
people are more excited for the
offseason than it does the actual na LCS
play I will also say that I don't think
that's necessarily true like I think I
think these are very exciting times just
like it's very exciting in the NBA
offseason offseason are very exciting
but it's not like you know oh man ESPN
is getting more viewers now than it did
during the finals or whatever like
there's not more news around it then
like the the pinnacle of your sports
calendar year will always be the most
important thing and you can't just take
away the climax of the year because it
makes two regions feel bad not to
mention I think unlike traditional
sports there is a lot more fandom for
other regions than the local regions so
I mean I think fans like to see in North
America like to see faker play on the
final stage right like with there was no
issue selling out staples last year just
by the fact that it didn't feature in
North American team yeah
an EU LCS fans like to watch or EU fans
like to watch anything as long as it's
not a yes also Geno in chat mentioned
something that we also kind of talked
about was that riot stopped using their
main twitch channel which I actually
think was way more impactful than anyone
ever has admitted like they had at the
time
I think syndicate somehow beat them but
they were like the first channel to a
million or a second channel to a million
and they're one of the biggest twitch
channels around and then they just
stopped using it for their weekly
broadcasts
I agree hundred percent with that that
was again yeah the whole thing was just
bad yeah well the way Khan we're gonna
move on to some more collars just so
that we can get rotated enough people
through but thank you very much for
calling in and it's an interesting
discussion that maybe deserves a stage
on a on a different show well definitely
and you guys all have a Merry Christmas
and a Happy New Year and we'll see you
next year yeah have a good one Idaho all
right on to fun with that one at least
yeah I mean I think you're falling
asleep to some of these someone come in
big I like this and you'd be like yeah
that's great no no I think a lot of
these are great I think this this one is
harder because it's less of like a 20-17
thing vac we have subt thank you that
Queen looking forward to oh and in fact
we is also I think in the queue right
now to join the calls so that'll be
exciting to have pay to play he or she
audio exactly it's all pay to play right
here on holiday first we got Riku Rico
oh my god kill me how do you what's up
you should have said Oh English it
phonetically never makes sense right
right go where you come from
good old Wisconsin whisk on Scotty boy
cheese Reiko is there anything that or
what is it that you would like to talk
about with 2017 uh yes my like party
Mozilla 2017 and the years prior is that
seen
action is better than TSM every year
since I've been watching it and our
world never talks about that world Z
sorry excuse me worlds and no one talks
about them ever it's always the TSM
story every year ya know well maybe if
c9 went to MSI
or the finals four events more people
would talk about them the the the other
thing that I would bring up as well is
that this is actually something that we
discussed on an earlier point in the
show and was my advocating for TSM
potentially not switching rosters is
that regardless of whether or not c9
does better the fact is they don't go
deep enough for people to care like who
cares if you can make it to quarters
ultimately I don't think that any fans
or people really care unless you can
like go to semis or even go to finals
and understanding where na is that as a
region that was my argument for
potentially why it would be silly for
TSM to go for better results it'd be
better to have more popularity yeah I
completely agree I was like I think that
scene I needs to Sirois everybody this
year to get out of the TSM shadow and
they they go deep like you said in the
world where people finally see them as
like the second least prior seasons the
second contender against TSM yeah oh we
all talked to us the struggle for c9 is
that they are unable to ever build a
narrative around themselves that leads
people to believe that they're going to
have success at world so maybe they were
starting to build that narrative now
because they continue to outperform TSM
but it's hard when they are like
sneaking in to to the third spot and
like having to go through playing yeah
sneaky trying to get and having to go
through playing first in order to get to
world it's like that's never gonna
inspire ton of hype whereas if you have
GSM just like decimating people for a
split and then looking you know maybe
pretty good at finals that's gonna lead
to more hype and more conversation
around TSM
also there TSM right like just actually
you know seal G when Kelly around them
were probably one of the word
performing teams in the na LCS oh well
they weren't that I think you're
forgetting some of the teams in there I
mean they had to face off against Azure
cats to keep their spot o DG yeah xtg
with the worlds that when they came back
season for you do you remember actually
near my time this is too much of a
tangent story continue to try yes either
way so my point is like CLG were or had
like a ton of people talking about them
in a world where you know the double if
being on the analyst desk was like a
huge mean because he was just not never
making it there so I I think that's kind
of the problem that c9 is faced and we
saw them face it again in 2017 so I'm
curious to see if if now your your point
of a big moment is seen I'm proving once
again that for some reason they can
outperform supposedly better in a talent
at Worlds and I think that's a really
good point for this year but we'll have
to see if they're able to sort of start
to cultivate you know that narrative of
performance well I know we don't want to
look too far for it initiative but we've
talked a lot about Rick Ross or
speculation in previous episodes so I
don't feel too bad but do you feel like
the roster moves this offseason are
setting them up to finally overtake TSM
in the narrative or do you think they're
gonna get left behind again I think
losing I think I heard the last guy that
he said contracts and equal trade but I
don't know what possessing together to
impact or what happened that deal but
like you have all SKT saying oh yes
unite has impact it has impacted take it
for its worst but if they're saying that
world champions I mean he's probably
worth keeping around and I just I think
that's good yeah I get that yeah so
you're on delay so I'm gonna do that for
another 10 seconds even though my hands
are currently back down but I mean like
now it's gonna be a matter of I guess
overthrows TSM yell or whoever I guess
I'm more interested to see who's gonna
actually create a fan base that's not
just chanting TSM all the time even when
tea isn't up playing the game like what
really what what's gonna take to Korea
fan bases not just changing TSM liquid
whatever what's wrong with Shane TSM do
you that's that's a is historic eSports
tradition these it is you need to have
big personalities that put themselves
out there that broadcast and also
created a narrative around them and
hopefully have some results sounds easy
dude Reiko thank you so mean the the
call we did it
excited about this excited about your c9
you know looking at what happens to c9
next year for sure he's gone so I'm in
red or green can we settle down on how
great a sweater that is no problem not
like geez you guys are getting a little
jealous over here hey yeah the sweaters
shut down okay well compliments me they
just tell me I look homeless yeah you do
look homeless
uh let's that might be the story for
2017 marks halt like insist on
homelessness Mecca Lara sub thank you
Michael R looks like we were getting on
my new recently subbed back we thank you
very for the sub and where you come from
a little bit that's Mark's hometown
state where are you a Massachusetts Clos
you're very excited about that
Voeckler
were you in Massachusetts hello hey can
you hear it exactly can you hear me yes
yeah when you talk trying trying to
catch where you're from in Massachusetts
because market from there
Western Western Massachusetts okay uh a
couple towns away okay okay I'll just
pretend you're at these Six Flags yeah
yeah that sounds about right
nice okay that we what did you want to
talk about well I got two topics that
I'm very
versed in we could talk about the other
means of 2017 or if you want to talk
about Team Liquid because I've been
following them I mean what sounds like
you're talking about the same thing oh
well yeah yeah so why don't you start
off with the memes yeah I'm excited to
hear your what what was your favorite
meme of 2017
well I'm very partial to marks
silver scrapes but to spare him from the
the torture I guess will glance pairing
everybody it doesn't bother me music to
my ears
well I really like since I was a liquid
fan I like vault boy and how that kind
of came into wet in a week do you think
it went away I feel like any time for so
many mentions golden boy d9 literally
just made an announcement video we had a
vault boy mask on as he pulled iron I
don't think it's gone away yeah but it
is what does a fair point is that that
meme came out and then golden clues
season kind of it did so baby it was
like let me even came just at the wrong
time for golden blue well I uh I see
where you're coming from to me I just
kind of don't like golden glue so I got
I guess I pushed out of the way bit okay
not like so you're very was going glues
me like probably partial to mid laners
they're not good for form on the big
stain yeah
alright so okay so you got anything else
on the main front Beckley I really liked
Sneaky's made outfit he's made outfit
was pretty good I'm excited about you
know 2018 sneaky outfits - mm-hmm I'm
excited for for optics new meme heavy
roster
yeah with with power evil and arrow
I feel like arrows a an underrated
mirror you've ever seen his Twitter
account oh yeah yeah that's that's
something else I tell you I loved when
he won the MVP and just like rubbed in
everyone's face he was like how could he
win he's just like who gives a shit I
wants my award get out of my face and
how okay I'm I'm gonna quote this tweet
so I don't get it wrong November 28th
hey all caps - exclamation part
exclamation marks rain drop cooking blah
blah blah pot pot pot I don't really
follow that but it's good stuff ya know
no one no one does yeah it's arrow
alright so you told us about your memes
how about Team Liquid uh just how how
awful they're they're twenty seventeen
was in all their acquisitions and and
they're dropped players and do you
remember link was on the team no one
really oh yeah I forgot about but now he
was splitting he was splitting roster
time with golden glue in scrims and then
just dropped him never
cuz golden glue this grim god yeah I
never at link was I had been looking
forward to interviewing link and before
he had even made his debut he was gone
it was very sad yeah well I wasn't doing
so hot in scrims what I heard just just
how how much Team Liquid changed rosters
it was no none of their players got time
to get comfortable with each other and
obviously the success never came to them
but I'm looking through the league pedia
in their 2017 that goes link joints and
vicious joined konkwon joins Youngman
rejoins golden blue becomes an active
public joins Adrian joins like three
months yeah that's pretty good
actually maybe a whole areas of videos
just to kind of go through like the the
players and staff members of Team Liquid
throughout this year and and finally you
know I would you didn't mention us in
the name section but right now we've got
the paint by Steve meme which i think is
a pretty good meme well that even
started with the doublelift
acquisition like that's it yeah yeah I
don't think that means not going
anywhere left to this offseason that's
gonna it's just getting stronger and
stronger you know I think the memes of
LCS are definitely hitting a high point
right now yes we're at an all-time high
for memes I agree and these new teams
are gonna bring even better memes so
yeah that's what you hope hundred LS
when hundreds Eve starts losing no
eyebrows Guardians whenever Brazil in
Guardian starts losing speak read about
clutch
no no okay way to go guys thank you
thank you for calling in all right
thanks for having me yeah have a go
all right who we got next work I don't
know we'll figure it out okay
what is the fly quest show we can do I
don't know it's so easy quest you know
there's got to be a million of them fill
quest by quest by quest yeah like
goodbye oh okay gotcha
or maybe they get a bye you know in one
of the bracket stages I I got to give a
shout-out to kpop or Die which I'm
pretty sure is my photographer Jeremy
he wears crazy outfits Thank You kpop or
die for the sub
we got rocket surgeon on the show rocket
surgeon I like this a lot
you know surgeon rocket scientist you've
merged it all work where you calling
from your microphone is a little a
little rough is it here's that one yeah
calling from North Carolina okay well
where's what is your what's your 2017
highlight my 20 my 2017 highlight was
the five-minute level six on Martin
we've got Levi's 5 minute level 6 on
knockin against fnatic this waters nice
I guess a that was probably in Game one
of the highlights of the entire year
which is how fucking crazy that was yeah
no one was ready for it and it was just
though yeah and then everything that
came from it to you know just like how
could we have known this was coming this
was impossible to know like how could we
have prepared for a 2v1 like all this
stuff and it's like just everything that
came from that game as well was amazing
it really was um I just I thought it was
probably one of the most exciting
matches of the year that's what would be
exciting beer on 5 May
oh yeah Levi has been doing this
campaign for to come to North America
very sad that that hasn't happened yet
yeah well I know that we're doing it
Travis where you were talking about he
was going to be okay without had a
meeting yeah I don't know there was a
translation error that I'm not sure I'm
still unclear that I've coming out of
that also I was looking to ask you to
see if you had maybe few doubt but
that's not videos already been monetized
it's already been viewed there's no
reason to do any more work on it yeah
yeah well no I mean I like comments I
think there was some some native
speakers that were explaining that he
was he misunderstood the question and
that he was implying he didn't need to
don't necessarily need to join like a
TSM team or something he was happy to
join one of the newer teams I think I'm
not sure yeah but it would be nice and
that is a pretty hype moment I wish we
and if this was a Yahoo show we would be
pulling this up right now but or if
Travis just felt like using his fingers
no I don't like playing did I think in
time and then Aidid yam level six doctor
which does not show anything for sure
yeah I don't know either way I know I
think that's a pretty good point and I
really appreciate rocket surgeon
anything else that you want to talk
about from 2017 I don't want to kick you
out of the probably just the whole dog
story and how a Sergey being my favorite
came and just watching him kind of like
I don't want to say like ruin the team's
chances because if there was gonna be a
team that could handle him well that was
on that crew Fox but I was really hoping
it was gonna be CLG and turn him into
what he could be why he just I don't
know and we ended up with Omar bad and
just that like my guys person I just she
just wasn't top tier and it hurt us a
lot yeah yeah it was dark
Derek was apparently a lot of people's
like focal point for the year
surprisingly there were so many good
things that happened this year like the
doc stuff the TL stove I don't know this
one I feel like it for a year that did
had decreased viewership I feel like
some of the stories were pretty insane
well if you don't remember I I would
actually argue that spring uh 2020 yeah
this year actually had the best split
we've ever had the amount of crazy a
story lines like people don't remember
like fly quest was the number one team
and it was cc9 blue and see nine white
or whatever like there was so much crazy
shit arrow was like stomping kids super
hard TSM was struggling with turtle
stepping in like TL was falling apart
like they're like there were story lines
everywhere Keith couldn't stop dying
like everything was so fucking great in
spring yeah we didn't thinking like what
was gonna win a Keith couldn't stop
dying that was you saying like yeah that
was like everyone's like Keith in like I
don't know every team had like one huge
at least one huge thing going on yeah
well the last thing I want to say is a
star Cuttino dot that needs to happen
start earning her doc would be good yeah
thanks so much rocket surgery for the
call no problem yes thanks man I just
actually moved market to the other we
got a case to admin privileges here yeah
what about it
I wanted a rocket surgeon sale to show
and you to leave no space could have
stayed out the video could have stayed
on for the the show but I needed his
voice I liked it a lot more his voice
speaking of we also do as you can tell
by his call and take calls from cans
attached to strings I have them set up I
thought he was saying Star guardian or
God needs to happen because he he was or
God calling through the masculine oh
yeah
pain is real all right caller mark yeah
see who we got Spence 42 you thank you
for the sub how are you doing Kelby
I'm doing great yeah
that's good kill you go Travis I heard
how much you loved Alaska as microphone
so I got you another Louise nine four
two eight where are you from and what's
your microphone sound like Oh Travis
come from a very shitty country which I
don't mention I'm not from the US okay
you don't want to mention your country
ah my microphone doesn't sound too well
nothing that's fine it's it's okay we
can understand you um no it's pretty
shitty okay your country shitty so
you're ashamed too much should we paint
on your country oh I've heard people I
don't want to say like they're nervous
about saying the city they're from you
know it I don't know if we've ever had
anybody don't say the state but you're
you're literally like I don't want to
tell you anywhere about the country that
I'm in yeah yeah well Travis you tell
you the truth I'm from Venezuela
Venezuela very cool that's well I'm
happy to have you on the show I'm in
South America I would like to but I've
met the Venezuelan people before they're
amazing and you seem amazing too and I'm
excited to hear what you thought was
amazing in 2017 do you know what was
amazing
well I won't have you people in twitch
chat and reddit you get sad when TSM
loses write me
I guess so creamed and so happy when
that when those shitters lose okay so
what do you were stopped I am a CEO G AC
9 RG + KP pen I love those teams okay um
I love afro I love sneak yell up so many
other players and when I saw double ik
walk into crown and just died I laugh so
hard because I do really so what when
you're you've described why you're a fan
of other teams is there a reason why you
don't like TSM and I hate how cocky
Haunter is I hate how overrated bjergsen
is and
even though I I really like doublelift
and I more or less respecting I've I've
been so angry at him at how much he he
chokes internationally okay well you
should be happy chunks internationally
because you want to yes on to fail well
not anymore
no I also hate red you know okay it's
not a change don't have to address that
well it's their social media guy like
about Reggie you said that Han sir is
too cocky and Virg is overrated but what
do you do well on the topic of Haunter
yeah I think that cancer is not even a
top four top laner he's not even gonna
be top five this break okay we're the
four deputies are ahead of them number
one some day numbers two three and four
is gonna be between flame darshan and
who me or ad been it's gonna be gone sir
right there because on Syria see if a
solid tank player who does his job but
yes
anyway management it has the he can play
carries in fact cancer is the very
definition of the na J's okay any J's
which every region in the world makes a
meal out of other than a okay alright
very good so so to reiterate your 2017
the highlighted toy is seventy for you
is watching TSM lose yes in fact do you
remember TSM at MSI yes we got to see
TSM blues to leave my god damnit I got
is amazing
I love Levi so you guys know me by
twitch n yeah I'm sure they do it'll
take a second how so you obviously hate
TSM and it seems like it's all player
related whereas I feel like a lot of the
times that people hate TSM it's due to
the other fans or maybe like a single
player do you hate TSM at all for any of
the reasons or is it pretty much
possibly the players and staff hmm and I
also paid their fans I think their fans
are autistic yeah artistic there's no I
didn't know and he's a science this guy
the thing is I met some really good TSM
some really good TSM fans some really
good talk but most of them like the
brings so many boneheaded of penguins
and social media and unread it like
people saying that arrow then in this
her to be MVP that hawser Shannon
someday he'll you guys even watch the
games so again the the topic of the show
was what you like the big moments for
you 2017 I'm concerned that the majority
of your call is just coming in to you
listing all the reasons why you don't
like TSM well I mean he came in he said
his favorite moments was the fact that
TSM failed twice internationally and
then we kind of MSI they had a pink a
goal lead against g2 and they could
never close yeah they're lost to the
flash wolves the flash holes were so
damn bad at Worlds that yet TSM managed
to be worse and one day they lost then
they were also tied wait two misfits oh
by the way I like misfits but I think
that people kind of overrated him a bit
because I think it was more SKT
being badder than being really good but
on TSM man I have I'm still kind of
angry a double but you know I never
liked him because he gives have so many
choking means now but ABC just walking
into a I didn't do a Viktor to die when
ABC that does not fly hit the right time
thank you
doublelift yeah
right Louise thank you so much really
cool and thank you so much double it for
making sure that TSM there's not making
out a group thanks Kay well thank you so
much nice for your call I'm so
definitely a different perspective I
think that some of the other callers we
had have had a chance to talk to you
tonight and it's nice to hear you know
the sort of reflective opinion you've
been able to share with us about 2013
yeah have a good one
thanks man you know I kind of like I
really can relate to that guy because if
if there's like a team that you hate and
you just like want to see them fail more
than everything then like world's every
year is somebody who's like a TSM hater
has just got to be the greatest event
when they get the group of life yeah and
then you know like they bomb out that
guys just got to have like the best and
he was it was like pure joy coming in he
was like described yes laughing he was
so happy like genuinely happy yeah like
like me hearing roses for the first time
happy about TSM not making it out of
groups I mean it's it's I can understand
not liking a team enjoying when they
fail but to have that be your highlight
of the eSports years for least League of
Legends years prizing yeah yeah so less
than celebrating the victories it's more
about celebrating the failures for that
for him alright so next call who we got
mark oh he went off to go find somebody
we're gonna find out in just a moment
critics I am the fourth Hokage
yeah what's up Travis we got your
favorite jutsu um you know it's the it's
my characters thing the throw got the
flash yeah yeah yeah yeah it's a
teleportation thing yeah really cool
sure what anime world are you calling
from
I am the fourth Hokage she's calling
from the leaf village Travis Jesus
Christ you're embarrassing okay I don't
know
we're waiting for village all right
where are you calling from I in the
baggage what location or I'm calling
that took me like completely off guard
I'm calling from Dallas okay Dallas okay
and are they mostly accepting of of your
you know interests in Texas oh I'm sorry
I heard what a Kelby said I didn't hear
what you what Travis said to answer
Kelly's thing overwatch League is like
almost guaranteed to fail and my what is
your yeah are they accepting of your
anime interests in Texas Oh
I mean I'm dead like stereotypical like
video game League player that barely
leaves the house so I don't even know oh
good okay that's a good good way of
dealing it with it what do you want to
talk to us about tonight I am the fourth
Hokage what was the big 2017 thing for
you oh um I really want to talk about
team of liquid but I saw like fuck we
like talked about that so like my my
thing is like rift rivals okay like
looking back on rift rivals that
tournament was actually a hot steaming
pile of trash okay
like Jesus so I mean it's worth noting
that's the only great success in North
America had this year so be careful
before you you flush that one out you
know I like travels I mean so I thought
the idea of rift rivals was was good it
just like everything before screamed
that it was just kind of thought up at
the last minute so I personally thought
it was gonna be bad and it for the most
part ended up being bad can you
elaborate on that a little bit more like
what did you think made it feel like it
was a you know come on
well whenever when it was announced it
was announced on like only a month
before the actual event was planned or
something like that I may be wrong on I
don't I don't think though okay I don't
think I am um and then like I believe
they ended up like changing up the
format from the announcement anyways
yeah so initially it was supposed to be
almost like a crew battle kind of thing
we're like you put your worst teams in
first and then like winner stays on the
court kind of thing which I actually
thought was really cool before this one
said it is a more standard group stage
yeah I really like that um format wise I
think format for the na EU thing was
actually pretty good they basically had
the world's group stage and then the
best-of-five between the two best mic
records from the regions um the Asian
one with the Chinese Taiwan and Korea
was just really bad because it was all
best one also the results kind of like
gave like a false impression that na was
actually good which a lot of people that
weren't like you know any like biased uh
thought was the case like well I think I
think that's interesting because I would
I accepted the fact that at that point
in time we were better than Europe but I
just didn't think that I would have any
bearing on worlds which it didn't but I
think you can still relish that victory
over Europe it's not like it didn't
happen
and if anything we had like we were on
the like the lesser footing because we
were the ones who had to travel over and
that kind of stuff so and that regard I
I still think you have to give it like a
little bit of validity well to kind of
stroke any pride a little bit to Oh we
sent at the time c9 was like what
seventh place and p1 was last and I was
only like fourth or fifth but yeah yeah
they seen on was middle-of-the-pack p1
was really was last place um and then
you actually sent over there three like
three of the top four teams or something
at that moment you all ended up like
falling out at the end of the season but
I mean it felt good that we like we had
a bottom to your team like run run
training on like the best of my young
boy yeah so that document really on TSM
today because of rift rivals yeah that's
true you
keep like after it rivals he barely like
did anything like and I don't know if
you can really fall Tim considering the
jungle meadow was like tanks and you
can't really care you hard on tanks so
like Pete NP one was trash besides Mike
yeah that's beside the point though so
the most hype moment for you or the big
thing for you this year was just sort of
a disappointment and rift rivals yeah I
just felt like it was poorly like
executed I like the idea I just don't
like how they did it aspect the main
thing I don't like is the fact that they
like they did it
half a split after spring but they still
use like the spring standings mmm so you
didn't you had like say say you would
have won that the only team that from na
at that point that was looking strong
was TSM so we it would have kind of
almost been pointless and then and like
the lck MVP was like sent over and that
yeah you just had a lot of it didn't
actually have the best teams from each
regions at that point in time in my
opinion right well thanks so much for
the call I think your assessment over if
rival see a lot of people were
disappointed in that event and then I
think some people were happy about it
but it's hard to say as that was cousin
a did well or if it was because the
event was well executed yeah and you
know I still like the idea and I hope
they just like improve it next year yeah
well thanks all so good
oh sorry I'd also like to compliment
Kelby on a sweater mainly just to saw
well it was great having him on the show
taste on this program hey when are we
gonna get a woman on this program guys
taken zero female callers this episode
next is pigs it gets in the way my
sexist agenda this episode we we did so
or we haven't put on the other episodes
we have what have we yeah skipper
oh she's not your and yeah I don't know
I've never met a skipper before in my
life
hey guys Kelby is feeling really lonely
if you could reach out even if she
doesn't follow League get get one of
them to call in join this discord I'm
married that looks like it was is that
Kelby can you please put that closer to
the webcam it looks like permanent
marker on your finger oh oh I see the
Rings suddenly showed up there
interesting that wasn't there before
all right who who do we got next mark I
got it maybe twenty more minutes I think
yeah see you forgot anybody else that
subbed nobody yet but I'm sure listen if
I get to say this really quickly it's
Christmas time everybody
Aries looking for the hottest gifts
there's nothing like a sub to the sotl
Travis Twitter twitch channel which you
can gift now to other people you marry
happiness too and great stuff to their
hearts and now we got writing teacher on
the show who is a sub as well right
actually don't remember what he said
well mostly I'm not a sub oh I'm an
actual teacher oh well you know was that
it was an intentional pun hey man I have
to drop the Lions when I get home I'm so
good I'm saying I'm sorry I think he'll
be didn't understand what happened cuz
he's not like normal he loves puns
he looks stunned tell me super cool too
though yeah thank you
yeah wait what do you teach or is that
the chokes I I thought it was in the
name though yeah I think reading writing
to you way I mean like do you teach like
like college or high school or like I
teach the little ones so it's like it's
a big deal okay
very good well what what did you what
was a big thing for you in 2017 writing
to you um
actually there was like a few things
like I'm a Team Liquid fan because I
guess I played Starcraft 2 and uh you
know that was a bigger I seemed like it
was a thing I play Protoss and well
actually I was a big like testy fan he
was like a huge player back when I was
sort
watching replays so he played random I
tried to play random for a bit and it
was like nope I'm not that good so yeah
but yeah I kind of like grew up with the
whole team liquid thing and then when
they got a league team I was like super
that was kind of like when I started
watching eSports nice so so about the
the liquid thing I was super
disappointed that like Mickey's nowhere
to be found
he's in my a and kind of just off of
that I guess to move forward and stop
talking about liquid I think like na lct
na LCS teams need to really work on
building players as brands more so than
they need to work on themselves because
I think if we invest in players each
team will have like easy access to like
an immediate fan base so I just think
there's like like for instance there's a
lot of parallels with the traditional
sports now like I'm I'm a player's guy
like Derrick Rose was white guy and now
he's injured he was in Chicago you know
his breakout year and you know I just
stick with players you know I'm from
Texas and so San Antonio is pretty it's
like my team but at the same time I find
myself watching other teams because of
the players and I think you need to see
that a lot more in a na LCS teams are
nervous I think of building up players
too much because if you build up the
players and then you have a offseason
where you have to bring in like we saw
this with span and mithi right like the
the a lot of the fandom that was at TSM
despite being one of the few teams that
has just a native fanbase was around
doublelift and and sort of that roster
they had before so when they had to
change out 60% of their roster a lot of
people were questioning whether or not
they wanted to support TSM for this year
so I think that's kind of one of the
issues that people have had well what is
the alternative building up I mean optic
and TSM you know TSM generally speaking
have done good jobs of building up the
fans based around their brands but do
you think that those fan base around
their brands were a product of the
players that they had in what they
contributed
or because they were doing team stuff
possibly but I think that they were able
like greenwall right is a reference to
the fanbase of optic it's not
necessarily of one of the teams
what nadeshot built like nadeshot built
green wall with hex like that guy is so
massively responsible for making optic
what it is today inter art that that
might be true but the fanbase stays with
optic and has trials you're right
which is why you don't need to be scared
of losing these star players because you
will naturally retain some of these
players so do you think that it was fine
to lose double if to TSM and that that
wasn't a big brand hit for them no no it
was a big brand hit just like as you're
referencing win double lift and bio
leave you're going to have a net loss
from your current point but you will
still have over the period of time
gained more weight yeah TSM is so large
part due to Reggie and dyrus and odd one
and true turtle and all these guys over
the years having players that are big
and stars and stream like burek and what
they've contributed like if you look at
the popularity of LCS teams within the
franchise as they exist now and you list
them off from like top to bottom the
guys that are at the top will have had
the most stars as part of their
organization over the longer you're
gonna give me up and then once at the
bottom won't is I was the winner that
was you know like win the game show and
you answer the right question the lights
go off cuz no mark you're like totally
going up yeah yeah yeah when you lose
double lift it's gonna suck but over the
course of time you will have gained more
fans than if you had just never had
doublelift or not invested in him while
he's there yeah you think that a lot of
teams have done have focused solely on
player brand building and then I think
it's it's a two direction road where you
have to build the brand and the players
right like I think I know what's right
is immortals where he tried to sort of
create like this idea of a philosophy
behind the the team and all that kinda
know oh by the way and shut up to your
Gillette like content that was super
like awesome to see and like I can't
until Travis YouTube please subscribe
thank you alright just made he'll be
really happy because he manages the
Gillette relationship for yes it was
really cool it was a I wish like though
I wish we had like the guys let loose a
little bit more I felt like you could
like get like bits of their personality
at times yeah but um I don't know if
they're like coach not to get too into
it like hey guys we're still
professionals you know three of them are
new to the team right so they're a
little nervous mark did you have
something you wanted to say yeah before
we get with all the fellating alright
the other thing I don't mean used to
mention is that you have to win dude
alright yeah like a lot of people who
tried to build up brands like one I
don't think immortals did a great job
with their players like I saw Noah like
way more than I saw his players true and
there's notes you don't love Noah's
notes I'm not saying they're bad I'm
saying do both and the other thing I'm
saying is like c9 is another team if you
want to point it that built off their
players it was sneaky and meteos and
high and lemon and balls all those
people had such strong identities and
we're very vocal about who they were and
then when the team needed to move on
they moved on and they still have fans
yeah and they won a lot when they played
and that that's the most important thing
you went a lot and lets your personality
show those guys were not particularly
like shy uncle you knew who they were
when you watch them and I feel like a
lot of time the two problems teams have
is one they don't win enough into their
players when they get on camera no
offense to Mike Young but they'd like a
guy like him just just States the facts
and he's very nice and he has a you know
a clear head I'm sure he will but I'm
just saying like you never had double if
to build him by the way like it can't be
understated how much I think double have
contributed to BIOS rise in popularity
that's why he's so valuable to an
organization not just for the
personality that he brings but how he
can develop other personalities in your
organization
you know it's true Kelby you're already
so biased towards doublelift and all the
content you create you just talk about
don't lift all the time and how great he
is and I stop hey guys because Travis
talks about doublelift all the time
missing Travis has never done content
with double writing teacher is there
anything else for us actually I'm pretty
good but thanks you thank you all for
getting me on here it was pretty nice to
like see you is this the last episode
for real is that is that what's for this
year for this year this year okay I feel
you kiss yeah it's like December so yeah
take a good long break dude you've been
doing super good all of y'all are really
cool to watch every time they can't have
content I try to watch it thanks to them
but yeah I'm like a teacher so it's like
all in the weekends right yeah yeah no
worries I'm lucky tonight
yeah well thank you very nice guy and
I'm completely on on board with you mark
I think yeah I've always said that like
popularity is dictated by two paths you
have results in personality and the only
thing that scares me sometimes is like
if you if you put all of your like it's
really easy for teams to put all of
their eggs and like investing into the
results basket but I think that's
actually way harder to control than sure
personality no oops I clicked the wrong
button on also I'm gonna I'm gonna clip
this and send this to Peter Travis when
you were saying that you know like guard
talked about and I'm gonna clip it so
you're only saying negative things so
it's gonna make you look like a piece of
shit Peter said that Christ what I come
back and get Peter said he was going to
create Korea he was gonna bitch Bonnie I
said what about me and he replied with a
question work alright so you guys has
many negative things so Peters you want
shit spam is here recalled from shit
spam another Massachusetts well that's
where are you in the house South Shore
okay what was that name mark South Shore
it's it's the South Shore of Boston it's
self-explanatory
IV I don't really I was party to class
shot bass
shit spam what do you want to talk to us
about I don't to talk about was both my
favorite and miss most disappointing
part of this season great side Delta Fox
was your favorite it was disappointing
where you're disappointed by Delta Fox
please tell me what your expectations
for Delta Fox were well I expected to be
able to watch them that's actually fair
yeah cuz you were just pointing right
not broadcasting all their games yeah I
I've never had interest in the
Challenger scene considering how bad it
really is the only other time I had
watched it was when rush played for
cloud nine challenger for a little yeah
but yeah I was just disappointed really
good to see how bad they would perform I
mean yeah did you think they were gonna
be bad or cuz there was two camps or
people who was like they'll do well or
like decent event and then people who
are like they're gonna get murdered
which one were you in I think they had a
chance but I guess I really came down to
practice yeah it's kind of crazy how
that works
one one one group of people is screaming
and playing all day every day and the
other group is streaming soloqueue kind
of crazy yeah what I didn't think it was
good for was I think it was good for
echo fox as I mean great PR getting such
popular parish and also I think the
person who benefited the most out of it
was probably honestly shifted like I
don't think he's very popular at all
before it and now you're gonna do stream
he has like 5,000 years or more
yeah he went from like about 1 to 2 K
concurrence that I usually saw up to
like 5 to 7 now so yes Europe it's been
interesting to see sort of the network
effect of personalities in 2017 you saw
that with Delta Fox a bit where all
those guys working together they were
able to you know some was greater than
all of its parts and the the same thing
with offline I think where you've seen a
lot of the personalities associated with
what mark and Skaar are doing really
grow because they're sort of able to
move their audiences against each other
okay I felt like for a second there's
like a tongue-in-cheek thing coming oh
you're gonna be like a Delta Fox sucked
it showed it offline both things mark
were involved in failed terribly this
year how much revenue was awful I bring
and I would see to every sponsor
activations around that Shin spam so
what'd you think about like the point
that it kind of proved at to some point
like to some extent that challenger is
hard all right because you said you like
you didn't care and they honestly suck
which i think is fine to have that
opinion but at least they kind of went
in there showed that like if you took a
five soloqueue heroes and put them all
together they would still get stomped
out and challenger did you get did you
at least appreciate that element yeah I
mean challenger had like dandy in it
whose honestly I think still one of the
best junglers well time ad fliers now in
the LCS on fly quest and just a bunch of
good players as a whole so I don't
really think that challenger is that
easy considering like I think some of
the even the rookie like talent like
licorice who's gone on cloud nine now
and like I think hazel was really good I
think as a whole challengers a lot
harder than people think it to be hey
just out of curiosity I went and looked
at the top threads for your league of
Legends subreddit this year and a couple
of them are from April Fool's so don't
count them the next one is right and
Jareau talking about tyler one the one
after that is the echo fox challenger
team Delta Fox good hanging out so dot
eSports articles so pretty good stuff
I'm sure that was half their traffic
this year
Totti sports Sam Travis so many well I
mean like that that is a huge story yeah
had like what 30 K up votes or something
36 kick
Jesus 3366 Commons I kind of along the
line of troll shit in the challenger
series TCS is something I'm actually
pretty happy about looking back at 20
70s I mentioned then the twitch a second
ago yeah that's totally not Wi-Fi but
I'm a very original person sure yeah but
that's the kind of stuff I hope we see
more of I like when the community just
decides to do fun shit by themselves you
know like you don't need riot you don't
need eSports and the orgs just like get
a group of people together and have some
fun I want to see more that and that's
why this show gets 445 viewers right now
you know like that's it's just all about
getting some people we're not having any
fun that's the problem is cuz I'm really
jealous like lb sweater yeah that's true
either way thank you so much for calling
in since Pam was it's a fair I think a
lot of us have forgotten about Delta
Delta fuck so good stuff yeah thanks for
having me have a good holiday yeah
thanks man two more people coming in and
then we'll probably wrap the show how
you doing coming
I'm doing great just check it it with
you again yeah I was like hey these are
something wrong with me name you Asian
has subbed so as flurry and liquid
crusher so thank you so much to those
new subs on the show I think liquid
pressure sub previously spent 42 where
you calling from hey I'm calling from
Camarillo so if I bust out it's cuz we
just caught fire up here so wait where
is that Camarillo California about an
hour north you just south of interet
okay Wow okay well did you this did you
just get is there some new fire now st.
Thomas is still it's free oh yeah I
heard that they're evacuating people in
Santa Barbara
yes Santa Barbara is having issues but
yeah is it near you now are you mostly
okay but we're mostly fine I'm a little
south yeah everything is crazy it's been
going on for so long now it yeah it's
not I was working the night had started
in power yeah
good evening unless any topic what what
was big things for you 2017 that was a
big fan of the international tournaments
this you actually I think it's kind of
really easy to hate on some of them cuz
na did poorly but I thought there were a
lot of really good underdog stories show
me more gigabyte Marines it was kind of
great Marines was uh pretty good I mean
you could make that its own 2017 thing
like you know I think in the past we've
seen kind of some breakout wild-card
teams would I mean not that that's the
term they use anymore I know it's 2017
you can merging regions merging merging
developing regions yeah but I mean I
mean that was a big reason I enjoyed Ken
all-stars again to is see him leave I
come out and show up especially against
Mike Young a few games so yeah no I
think it's but you know everybody wants
to call on this show and Sean Mike y'all
is the nicest calmest Kilis dude just
really yeah but to piss all over this
guy alright so I you enjoyed the
international events was there one that
stood out in your mind
I actually thought world's was really
good this year both kind of with
gigabyte Marines already having a set
slot and then seeing the upset of
Samsung Galaxy into SK teams at the
beginning of the tournament everyone it
seems like was sleeping on all right
it's gonna be long as you were SKT this
year and then Samsung just kind of
showed up and misfits as well putting
out in a group where kind of they were
not expected to do anything yeah you uh
you were able to watch worlds yeah
pretty much all of it so damn you were
where did you watch vod's there did you
watch it live I watched a good amount of
it live I was in the UK at the time yeah
so time difference wasn't that bad cuz I
think I just thought that four world
spinner for any fans yeah if you were in
the UK that's
but I think I figured most na fans this
year was probably not as great for them
for the international events because
maybe people weren't as interested MSI
you know TSM didn't do so well they're
rift rivals was I mean some people
apparently didn't even like the event
and then Worlds was almost unwatchable
for for this time zone so I think if
there were games you wanted to see it
was certainly easier for me because I
was able to catch a lot of it live so
you pick up stuff too you wouldn't have
otherwise seen yeah
like I watched every TSM series live
well hey I think it wasn't that bad to
watch live because some of them were bad
were it would start it like two or three
but it also started at midnight a couple
times so yeah I mean I understand for
some people that's bad but yeah yeah the
babies well you have anything else first
ones 42 I just want to say I'm really
glad that the caller before I said that
he was kind of down on Delta Fox for the
year and I just want to call it now that
Team Liquid is Delta Fox 2.0 okay they
were good in 2015 and there's you know a
team of people that are were worlds
essentially this year and then you have
a team of people who were Travis is
insulted you dare suggest doublelift you
guys anything like you know tell bees
that I'm looking you've got impact that
was maybe in the top five most last year
you've got PO Beltre who looked maybe
top four and now as you're gonna be
worse with power of evil and seventh in
the league you've got double if - if
anything proved that he gives the same
value this wild turtle Oh international
failure I love this at the end here I
don't I don't think it's gonna be quite
the roster people think it's gonna be
but I am excited to watch clutch show up
this is just like we said skaara I'm a
cutie pie shifter voyboy dyrus people
playing on roles they don't normally
play exactly the same as Team Liquid
with five World Championship the big you
know so the big thing about franchising
was everyone was looking forward to hey
this is an opportunity to build talent
teamliquid showed there they want to do
any of that they're gonna by declining
tail
well other teams look to the future I
mean you say that you say that I'm I'm
just like I'm not even arguing with you
I think that's a first statement but
it's interesting because Team Liquid is
getting a ton of praise for this
meanwhile golden Guardians who are
potentially going with the most like
we're gonna build Talent
they were just getting kind of flamed by
the community right well I think there's
the whole we're trying to win versed
we're trying to sit like because you
could argue that golden Guardians that
are investing in a talent but that's
also synonymous with saving money I'm
big unclutch this year I think they have
a good
I think the hakuho Apollo botlane looks
good I think Lyra come into the u.s. and
that golden card is clutch yeah
Lyra coming to the US last season she
owned a big and what I saw from Team M
breeds a little they put out it was
players saying hey Leary to clear did a
good job talking to us and kind of
explaining the game to us so I think
that is a team that it's gonna show up
big and break that top three you know
you are betting on Envy who do not have
that great of results this year versus a
merger of TSM and team liquor and
immortals in cloud nine so to be fair to
Spence
they had Seraphin ninja for half the
year so throw that right out and then
the second half the year they finish to
the playoffs and they got destroyed by
CLG a little bit but you know I I think
you know I'll give Spence this the Delta
Fox comparisons crazy but his other
takes I think could be like kind of the
Dark Horse takes of the year where
clutch games
alright TL is overrated and I don't know
yeah I do like I I do think it's like
the Delta Fox thing I think threw me off
a little bit but I do think it's fair to
question whether or not team like we can
pull it together just because they are
super team kind of deal alright the
Delta Fox thing was to come into the hot
take I don't think Team Liquid looks
kind of odd but I think putting kind of
I think CLG in cloud nine are getting a
lot of benefit of we've been in the
league for a while you're familiar with
Jensen and sneaky
therefore we are good and we're in the
top three and I don't think that's going
to be the case with either
Giratina and this year very good well
thanks so much Spence for calling in I
could talk to you in and keep holding it
down up north I hope everything calms
down up there soon all right appreciate
have a good evening everyone
thanks man dude wait is he does he think
that seal gc9 auntie are all not gonna
be top three he said that they were all
overrated Jesus who replaces those three
the hottest take clutch clutch hundred
hundred t yeah and maybe someday well no
he said he said three of the what are
the big four I don't know whatever we
got one last caller
I might not okay he's not been
responding working yeah so maybe well we
need one more color so hopefully we can
get something Baelor UK maybe we can get
a female for the first time on this
program had fishy thinking about fishy
but cheto on the call where you calling
from bitch at oh uh it sprouts Paquette
oh it's it's tallien so just a heads up
there I'm calling I'm not calling from
Italy I'm calling from Saskatchewan
Canada no I mean the the stuff in my
house is pretty good but okay I wouldn't
say there's a notable Italian food here
hit open a restaurant that sounds like a
business operating a really sound
business plan actually and then Jenny
that you might can invest in Bitcoin and
buy Saskatchewan Canada in a year and
started Italian restaurant you just only
accept deals in Bitcoin you'll be the
first Bitcoin exclusive restaurant yeah
I feel like I'd literally make zero
money that way no one knows what a
Bitcoin is yeah but you'd make a
blockchain it's alright so what do you
got for us what huh takes you have from
the cold north of Saskatchewan Canada
yes I wanted to talk about one of the
things I noticed about 2017 was kind of
this hype around sub rosters and having
an implementing subs into like a
rotation we saw like the Ray impact
sorta
implemented with cloud nine and a bunch
of other teams kind of picked up extra
players that they thought they'd sub in
in between series like four best of
threes but it doesn't seem like besides
rain impact they got really much
attention at all or they're gonna really
be a thing moving forward we a lot like
because every team needs Academy rosters
some people are saying like oh you might
be able to move them in between but
because we're going back to best ones
I'm gonna I would be really surprised to
see if we really have any dynamics like
that again it sucks that you weren't
here for last week's episode with Isaiah
because he is a maybe the most sub
hating rider yeah on the broadcast he
thinks that they're like basically
glorified tryouts well I shouldn't put
words in his mouth won't put words in
his mouth so you know he thinks that
they're glorified tryouts to eventually
bench players yeah I mean we saw like
echo fox did a few things or they talked
the same thing with Adrian and Alltech
they brought them in as sub sand yeah I
like they many jobs they do like these
introduction videos like oh we're
bringing in like a sub roster but it's
actually just we're bringing in your
replacement but we want to see if
they're good before we actually kick you
that's a there's a very good point I
mean I think yeah there was so much hype
and this is a very maybe a story no one
is really talked about yet but chato so
but because I think a lot of people were
hype at the beyond this year about best
of threes and oh you're gonna be able to
build out these much larger rosters
because you'll be able to sub in a
player because there's a chance that you
know maybe you can just win a third game
if you need to in it we're gonna grow
the talent pool we're gonna do all this
big stuff and that never ended up
happening yeah like a lot of times we
saw they'd start with they just start
with their sub and then as soon as they
lost they just alright bring in like
that's kind of what I feel like in I
think it was the spring or like yeah
spring split cloud9 would just start ray
they he'd lose and then they'd bring an
impact for like the security and
something I think a lot of fans are
really confused about like as cloud9
fans is like why is rey even getting
time but i mean we did see him being
effective by the end of that split
and try and get some bands for kind of
like carry top champions and that seemed
to be working for them but now that
we're going to like best one throughout
the regular season I don't think you're
gonna see anything like that I think
every impact deal is being broken up I
think the idea of subs as like
legitimate strategy things has always
been like questionable at best about how
effective that would be just because
it's better to have a single player who
can play two styles so you can't just
get banned out when you sub one in like
oh and SKT with like faker and easyhoon
which is what people love to point to
it's not really a successful strategy
generally speaking I think it was just
that easyhoon is really good oh yeah and
they're like that like the Saudis worked
like SKT has done it enough that people
like we want to copy that but I don't
think it's ever been like shown to
actually be the exception that proves
the rule kind of deal how many how many
best of ones our team's gonna play per
week now you know it's gonna be back to
the old so - Tim please Saturday you
play Sunday everybody plays both days
hmm I was gonna say like and they're not
doing super weeks nope no thank you
everyone hates super weeks there's two
there yeah super weeks - the fucking
worst I was gonna say maybe there's a
potential of like I don't know some
cheese that you can pull out with a sub
four best one if you're trying to
surprise somebody but I think that -
best of one's a week probably not it's
possible but I do think the idea of subs
as a competitive strategy or is is not
good but I do think subs are still
useful doing that you have another
basically position coach on your staff
yeah yeah like they should be screaming
on their own within the Academy team
they should be in-house and they should
be talking all the time and stuff like
that I think there's still value for
them in that regard but yeah I don't
either like the idea of like yeah ray
and impact sword and shield yeah on the
other hand then do you think that these
Academy rosters are gonna be important
to how a team of designs its I don't I
don't have very much faith I think that
the Academy thing was something that
right
threw in because they felt like they
needed something to replace Challenger
and my feeling is that the holes
everyone was too bit distracted with
franchising and everything going on
there and so the whole Challenger
amateur scene is pretty much fucked for
2018 because there's there's been no
effort put into developing that from
riot or from the owners or anyone and
I'm happy to be proven wrong whenever
more details are unveiled but I just
have no hope for the Challenger amateur
scene with the Academy teams and stuff
in 20 20 18 I think that most will see
is teams will maybe like I've thought
you know I I would argue like Levi's
coming over and hang out on an academy
team while they teach them English it's
more just kind of like a holding station
for players but that's not really you
want that to be like a true development
system and I don't think that's what
it's gonna be I think you'll see at
least a couple cases of players moving
from an academy team to a starting
position over the course of the year
yeah you'll see you'll see a couple but
I don't think it'll be the kind of thing
where it's like a systemic like Academy
teams are great and that's why that's
happening so much is like the main
rosters failing a little bit and we need
a you know bench somebody or whatever it
is yeah that's like problem like you'll
see I'm used but I don't think you'll
see it as like academy teams are justify
their own worth any more than like just
having random subs did already yeah I
think that there's gotta be something
said for having a highly skilled group
of players that are in a potential
incubator for you where you can have
things that are hidden from other people
as well like oh yeah I was just about to
say echo Fox kind of tried that yeah
then it lasted five seconds I think oh
man I sleep only subbing or only playing
against our challenger team which was no
you you don't only scrim against them
but for a best of one format like
there's got to be some like you know I'm
biased because I come from an era you
may recall of season two worlds docx you
know where you can have strats that live
in the incubator and they're fucking God
here all right that's okay they were so
good he'll be right you probably think
I'm about to argue against you but I
actually agree yes I you don't need to
develop a whole second-place style you
don't know if you don't need a sub top
Lenore come in the middle of a series
and play half the games as a carry
player but I do think and they call them
in football misdirection plays I think
everyone should have a bag of tricks
yeah and you don't need to show them
that that much during the regular season
but there are things that you see and
you try them out and gave my Marines is
a great example of a team who probably
goes too far into the bag of tricks
but I would love to see well have that
changeup and it feels like people don't
want to admit that they're the underdogs
and they don't want to play substandard
and it's it's like a pride thing where
it's like no no we played the game and
we're better than you we're gonna beat
you standard it seems like the only time
we see stuff like that actually pop up
is around worlds like every year in
worlds there's always like one team
that'll pull out something kind of wacky
from there like month or so screens like
we saw kind of Katelyn show up out of
nowhere this year as well as like cloud
9 had singe randomly picked and forced
yeah I think a little more of it this
year with some of the like individual
picks but you can you can go crazier if
you want like you can do some some
banana stuff in the game and I think
gigabyte Marines proved that yeah I
think and if you can actually make that
kind of viable that's obviously gonna
improve like the viewer like viewership
of the games because everyone loves when
proteins pull out something wacky yep
hey watch it oh thank you so cut it on
into the show cattle yeah keep holding
it down in Saskatchewan
yeah thanks deep and have a good New
Year yeah have a happy happy Christmas
and good 2018 have a good boxing day
dude thanks thanks dude so that's the
show we'll go around and do shoutouts
anything you guys want to plug
Kelpie you got something for us yeah I'd
like to say thank you to the
chainsmokers for all the music that they
from 2014 right up until their
full-length album release that shit was
insane you guys are awesome uh you still
blocked by them on Twitter yeah for sure
I don't think that they go back and they
look through their list of like blocked
guys and like did we make a mistake here
you know like well you know I was gonna
have you guys come out and play at
twitchcon next year but no no that's uh
yeah I don't think that the chainsmokers
are like hard up yeah I don't know of
you big yeah mark mark you got anything
you want plug though I want to season
the start I'm going to Israel on the
22nd for seven days and I just hope I
don't die gonna come home I'm sure it'll
be fine yeah I know it's gonna be fine
for everyone else we do film this live
it goes on Twitch sotl Travis is the
twitch channel for those that ask later
on and we tried to have Mondays at 8
p.m. we won't be doing one next week
because obviously it's Christmas and
then we might not do one the following
Monday because of New Year's but we'll
try to do one that week I'm sure because
there's a lot to talk about I'm sure
something will happen in the next couple
weeks for us to go over and obviously we
can take a look at what 2018 has in
store we're also on the iTunes and
Google story for podcast would love to
have you subscribe there leave a review
a rating that helps us out a lot as
people try to find the audio version of
the show and then obviously the vaad
goes up over on the Travis cafard
YouTube channel so you can check that
out there it is Christmas time if you or
your loved ones are interested in
supporting the show you can give them a
sub straight to this channel there's
also patreon and you know there's some
amazing stuff happening over on me
undies by the way which you can check
out with me and these complex Travis
cafard it's a great time to get a gift
for a loved one
what's better gift and comfort
you know I tried to get my family subs
to sotl Travis and they uninvited me
from Israel well hey you didn't want to
go in the first place so this was it's a
win for everyone I think either way
thanks everyone for watching I really
appreciate all the support 2017 it's
been a good year I didn't talk too much
about it but it was a rough having Yahoo
eSports go away right as I feel like we
were doing doing quite well that was a
big thing for me this year maybe the
biggest yes I think that happened in
2017 but all the support that the
community showed me really has allowed
me to sort of recommit to staying in
content and on the independent side and
we'll see if I can keep doing that in
2018 I think the jury's still out but
I'd like to so thanks everyone for the
support thanks for watching the show and
we'll see you in the new year